---
layout: post
title: Second virtual meeting
subtitle: Sync up ⚡
tags: [meeting, virtual]
comments: true
author: Edan Bainglass
---

The second virtual meeting focused on ontology use in metadata schemas, schema formats (RDF support), and outreach.

## Agenda

- Focus on 2024 deliverables:
  - End of March (D1.1, D3.1, D3.2)
  - End of May (D1.2, D5.2)
- (10 min) Edan: WP1 + ontologies status/summary
  - Briefly mention ongoing tasks
  - Possible metadata-schema format – JSON-LDhttps://json-ld.org/
  - OpenSemanticLab toolshttps://github.com/OpenSemanticLab
  - Useful ontology/tools contacts (Simon Stier, Eibar Flores)
- (5 min) Edan: update on WFMS metadata-schemas
  - Simulation ontologies (e.g. OSMO)
  - Current exploration plans
  - Plans to update Aurora workflow schema to account for sample states
- (10 min) Fabio: update on ontologies/demo
  - Metadata-schema for SPM (D1.1)
  - openBIS-AiiDAlab integration (D1.2)
- (10 min) Nukorn: update on ontologies/demo
  - Metadata-schema for battery cycling (D1.1, D3.1)
  - openBIS-Aurora integration (D1.2)
- (10 min) Adam/Juan: updates on openBIS
  - Ongoing developments
  - Ontology/schema adapters (how would potential JSON-LD schemas be handled)
  - D3.2 plans/updates
- (10 min) Outreach
  - MADICES2 update (Edan/Caterina) (D5.1/3)
  - Website preview
  - How to make our efforts visible/clear to referees?
- (30 min) General brainstorm session

## Discussion

- [Simon Stier](https://www.isc.fraunhofer.de/de/arbeitsgebiete/anwendungen/digitale-transformation.html) and [Eibar Flores](https://www.sintef.no/en/all-employees/employee/eibar.flores.cedeno/) can assist with PREMISE towards ontologies in metadata schemas
- Focus on available ontologies in the short term
- Ontology development in the long term should balance cost against impact
- Ontology impact may be assessed via community surveys, e.g. at MADICES 2 pre-event meetings
- Battery digital twin stateful-ness
